added issues templates (#272)
llm-d/llm-d-inference-scheduler: .github/ISSUE_TEMPLATE/new-release.md

---
name: New Release
about: Propose a new release
title: Release v0.x.0
labels: ''
assignees: ''

---

- [Introduction](#introduction)
- [Prerequisites](#prerequisites)
- [Release Process](#release-process)
- [Announce the Release](#announce-the-release)
- [Final Steps](#final-steps)

## Introduction

This document defines the process for releasing llm-d-inference-scheduler.

## Prerequisites

1. Permissions to push to the llm-d-inference-scheduler repository.

2. Set the required environment variables based on the expected release number:

   ```shell
   export MAJOR=0
   export MINOR=1
   export PATCH=0
   export REMOTE=origin
   ```

3. If creating a release candidate, set the release candidate number.

   ```shell
   export RC=1
   ```

## Release Process

> 1. If needed, clone the llm-d-inference-scheduler [repo][repo].

Reviewer: nit: I think you can use the implicit reference version (just `[repo]`) when the two match

   ```shell
   git clone -o ${REMOTE} git@github.com:llm-d/llm-d-inference-scheduler.git
   ```

2. If you already have the repo cloned, ensure it’s up-to-date and your local branch is clean.

3. Release Branch Handling:
   - For a Release Candidate:
     Create a new release branch from the `main` branch. The branch should be named `release-${MAJOR}.${MINOR}`, for example, `release-0.1`:

     ```shell
     git checkout -b release-${MAJOR}.${MINOR}
     ```

   - For a Major, Minor or Patch Release:
     A release branch should already exist. In this case, check out the existing branch:

     ```shell
     git checkout -b release-${MAJOR}.${MINOR} ${REMOTE}/release-${MAJOR}.${MINOR}
     ```

4. Update release-specific content, generate release artifacts, and stage the changes.

> 5. Sign, commit, and push the changes to the Gateway API Inference Extension repo.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
5. Sign, commit, and push the changes to the `llm-d-inference-scheduler` repo.
```

   For a release candidate:

    ```shell
    git commit -s -m "Updates artifacts for v${MAJOR}.${MINOR}.${PATCH}-rc.${RC} release"
    ```

   For a major, minor or patch release:

    ```shell
    git commit -s -m "Updates artifacts for v${MAJOR}.${MINOR}.${PATCH} release"
    ```

6. Push your release branch to the llm-d-inference-scheduler remote.

    ```shell
    git push ${REMOTE} release-${MAJOR}.${MINOR}
    ```

7. Tag the head of your release branch with the number.

   For a release candidate:

    ```shell
    git tag -s -a v${MAJOR}.${MINOR}.${PATCH}-rc.${RC} -m 'llm-d-inference-scheduler v${MAJOR}.${MINOR}.${PATCH}-rc.${RC} Release Candidate'
    ```

   For a major, minor or patch release:

    ```shell
    git tag -s -a v${MAJOR}.${MINOR}.${PATCH} -m 'llm-d-inference-scheduler v${MAJOR}.${MINOR}.${PATCH} Release'
    ```

8. Push the tag to the llm-d-inference-scheduler repo.

   For a release candidate:

    ```shell
    git push ${REMOTE} v${MAJOR}.${MINOR}.${PATCH}-rc.${RC}
    ```

   For a major, minor or patch release:

    ```shell
    git push ${REMOTE} v${MAJOR}.${MINOR}.${PATCH}
    ```

> 9. Pushing the tag triggers CI action to build and publish the container image to the [ghcr registry][].

Reviewer: ditto - could use the implicit ref instead of empty. Or just be consistent with references in this file - whichever style you prefer. There are a few places in this file where this is used in different formats.
